Good morrow, goodLieutenant:
I am sorry for yourdispleasure;
but all will sure be well.
The general and his wifeare talking of it;
And she speaks for youstoutly: the Moor replies,
That he you hurt is ofgreat fame in Cyprus,
And great affinity, andthat in wholesome wisdom
He might not but refuseyou; but he protests heloves you
And needs no other suitorbut his likings
To take the safestoccasion by the front
To bring you in again.
Yet, I beseech you,
Give me advantage of somebrief discourse
With Desdemona alone.
Be thou assured, goodCassio, I will do
All my abilities in thybehalf.
Good madam, do: I warrantit grieves my husband,
As if the case were his.
O, that's an honestfellow.
Do not doubt, Cassio,
But I will have my lordand you again
As friendly as you were.
Bounteous madam,
Whatever shall become ofMichael Cassio,
He's never any thing butyour true servant.
I know't; I thank you.
You do love my lord:
You have known him long;and be you well assured
You shall in strangenessstand no further off thanin a polite distance.
Ay, but, lady,
That policy may eitherlast so long,
Or feed upon such nice andwaterish diet,
Or breed itself so out ofcircumstance,
That, I being absent andmy place supplied,
My general will forget mylove and service.
Do not doubt that; beforeEmilia here
I give thee warrant of thyplace: assure thee,
If I do vow a friendship,I'll perform it
To the last article: mylord shall never rest;
I'll watch him tame andtalk him out of patience;
His bed shall seem aschool, his board ashrift;
I'll intermingle everything he does
With Cassio's suit:therefore be merry,Cassio;
For thy solicitor shallrather die
Than give thy cause away.
Madam, here comes my lord.
Madam, I'll take my leave.
Nay, stay, and hear mespeak.
Madam, not now: I am veryill at ease,
Unfit for mine ownpurposes.
Well, do your discretion.
I like not that.
What dost thou say?
Nothing, my lord: or if--Iknow not what.
Was not that Cassio partedfrom my wife?
Cassio, my lord!
No, sure, I cannot thinkit,
That he would sneak awayso guilty-like,
Seeing you coming.
I do believe 'twas he.
How now, my lord!
I have been talking with asuitor here,
A man who languishes inyour displeasure.
Who is't you mean?
Why, your lieutenant,Cassio.
Good my lord,
If I have any grace orpower to move you,
His present reconciliationtake;
For if he be not one thattruly loves you,
That errs in ignorance andnot in cunning,
I have no judgment of anhonest face:
I prithee, call him back.
Went he hence now?
Yes, faith; so humbled
That he hath left part ofhis grief with me,
To suffer with him.
Good love, call him back.
Not now, sweet Desdemona;some other time.
But shall't be shortly?
The sooner, sweet, foryou.
Shall't be to-night atsupper?
No, not to-night.
To-morrow dinner, then?
No, I shall not dine athome;
I meet the captains at thecitadel.
Why, then, to-morrownight; or Tuesday morn;
On Tuesday noon, or night;or Wednesday morn:
I prithee, name the time,but let it not
Exceed three days: infaith, he's penitent;
And yet his trespass, inour common reason--
Save that, they say, thewars must make example
Out of their best-- is notalmost a fault
To incur a private cheque.
Shh.
When shall he come?
Tell me, Othello:
I wonder in my soul,
What you would ask me,that I should deny,
Or stand so mammering on.
What!
Michael Cassio,
That came a-wooing withyou, and so many a time,
When I have spoke of youdispraisingly,
Hath ta'en your part; tohave so much to do tobring him in!
If I a lady, I could domuch--
Prithee, no more: let himcome when he will;
I will deny thee nothing.
Why, this is not a boon;
'Tis as I should entreatyou wear your gloves,
Or feed off nourishingdishes, or keep you warm,
Or sue to you to do apeculiar profit
To your own person: nay,when I have a suit
Wherein I mean to touchyour love indeed,
It will be full of poiseand difficult weight
And fearful to be granted.
I will deny thee nothing:
Whereon, I do beseechthee, grant me this,
To leave me but a littleto myself.
Shall I deny you?
No: farewell, my lord.
Farewell, Desdemona: I'llcome to thee straight.
Emilia, come.
Be as your fancies teachyou;
Whate'er you be, I amobedient.
Excellent wretch!
Perdition catch my soul,
But I do love thee!
And when I love thee not,
Chaos is come again.
My noble lord--
What dost thou say, Iago?
Did Michael Cassio, whenyou woo'd my lady,
Know of your love?
He did, from first tolast: why dost thou ask?
But for a satisfaction ofmy thought;
No further harm.
Why of thy thought, Iago?
I did not think he hadbeen acquainted with her.
O, yes; and went betweenus very often.
Indeed.
Ay, indeed: discern'stthou aught in that?
Is he not honest?
Honest, my lord?
Honest!
Ay, honest.
My lord, for aught I know.
What dost thou think?
Think, my lord?
Think, my lord.
By heaven, he echoes me,
As if there were somemonster in his thought
Too hideous to be shown.
Thou dost mean something:
I heard thee say even now,thou likedst not that,
When Cassio left my wife:
what didst not like?
And when I told thee hewas of my counsel
In my whole course ofwooing, thou criedst'Indeed!'
And didst contract andpurse thy brow together,
As if thou then hadst shutup in thy brain
Some horrible conceit: ifthou dost love me,
Show me thy thought.
My lord, you know I love you.
I think thou dost;
And, for I know thou'rtfull of love and honesty,
And weigh'st thy wordsbefore thou givest thembreath,
Therefore these stops ofthine fright me the more:
For such things in a falsedisloyal knave
Are tricks of custom, butin a man that's just
They are close delations,working from the heart
That passion cannot rule.
For Michael Cassio,
I dare presume I think heis honest.
I think so too.
Men should be what theyseem;
Or those that be not, wouldthey might seem none!
Certain, men should bewhat they seem.
Why, then, I thinkCassio's an honest man.
Nay, yet there's more inthis:
I prithee, speak to me asto thy thinkings,
As thou dost ruminate, andgive thy worst of thoughts
The worst of words.
Good my lord, pardon me:
Though I am bound to everyact of duty,
I am not bound to that allslaves are free to.
Utter my thoughts?
Why, say they are vile andfalse;
As where's that palacewhereinto foul things
Sometimes intrude not?
Who has that breast sopure,
But some uncleanlyapprehensions
Keep leets and law-daysand in session sit
With meditations lawful?
Thou dost conspire againstthy friend, Iago,
If thou but think'st himwrong'd and makest his ear
A stranger to thythoughts.
I do beseech you--
Though I perchance amvicious in my guess,
As, I confess, it is mynature's plague
To spy into abuses, andoft my jealousy
Shapes faults which arenot--
that your wisdom yet,
From one that soimperfectly conjects,
Would take no notice, norbuild yourself a trouble
Out of his scattering andunsure observance.
It were not for your quietnor your good,
Nor for my manhood,honesty, or wisdom,
To let you know mythoughts.
What dost thou mean?
Good name in man andwoman, dear my lord,
Is the immediate jewel oftheir souls:
Who steals my purse stealstrash; 'tis something,nothing;
'Twas mine, 'tis his, andhas been slave tothousands:
But he that filches fromme my good name
Robs me of that which notenriches him
And makes me poor indeed.
By heaven, I'll know thythoughts.
You cannot, if my heartwere in your hand;
Nor shall not, whilst 'tisin my custody.
Ha.
O, beware, my lord, ofjealousy;
It is the green-eyedmonster that doth mock
The meat it feeds on; thatcuckold lives in bliss
Who, certain of his fate,loves not his wronger;
But, O, what damnedminutes tells he o'er
Who dotes, yet doubts,suspects, yet strongly loves!
O misery!
Poor and content is richand rich enough,
But riches fineless is aspoor as winter
To him that ever fears heshall be poor.
Good God, the souls of all mytribe defend from jealousy!
Why, why is this?
Think'st thou I'ld make alife of jealousy,
To follow still thechanges of the moon
With fresh suspicions?
No; to be once in doubt
Is once to be resolved:exchange me for a goat,
When I shall turn thebusiness of my soul
To such exsufflicate andblown surmises,
Matching thy inference.
'Tis not to make mejealous
To say my wife is fair,feeds well, loves company,
Is free of speech, sings,plays and dances well;
Where virtue is, these aremore virtuous:
Nor from mine own weakmerits will I draw
The smallest fear or doubtof her revolt;
For she had eyes, andchose me.
No, Iago; I'll see beforeI doubt; when I doubt,prove;
And on the proof, there isno more but this--
Away at once with love orjealousy!
I am glad of this; for nowI shall have reason
To show the love and dutyI bear you
With franker spirit:therefore, as I am bound,
Receive it from me.
I speak not yet of proof.
Look to your wife; observeher well with Cassio;
Wear your eye thus, notjealous nor secure:
I would not have your freeand noble nature,
Out of self-bounty, beabused; look to't:
For I do know our countrydisposition well;
In Venice they do let Godsee the pranks
They dare not show theirhusbands; their bestconscience
Is not to leave't undone,but keep't unknown.
Dost thou say so?
She deceived her father,marrying you;
And when she seem'd toshake and fear your looks,
She loved them most.
And so she did.
Why, go to then;
She that, so young, couldgive out such a seeming,
As to seal her father'seyes up close as oak--
He thought 'twaswitchcraft-- but I am muchto blame;
I humbly do beseech you ofyour pardon
For too much loving you.
I am bound to thee forever.
I see this hath a littledash'd your spirits.
No, not a jot, not a jot.
I fear it has.
I hope you will considerwhat is spoke
Comes from my love.
But I do see you aremoved:
I pray you not to strainmy speech
To grosser issues nor tofurther reach
Than to suspicion.
I will not.
Should you do so, my lord,
My speech should fall intosuch vile success
As my thoughts aim not.
Cassio's my worthyfriend--
My lord, I see you'removed.
No, not much moved:
I do not think butDesdemona's honest.
Long live she so!
And long live you to thinkso!
And yet, how nature erringfrom itself--
Ay, there's the point:as--to be bold with you--
Not to affect manyproposed matches
Of her own clime,complexion, and degree,
Whereto we see in allthings nature tends--
Foh!
One may smell in such awill most rank,
Foul disproportionthoughts unnatural.
But pardon me; I do not inposition
Distinctly speak of her;though I may fear
Her will, recoiling to herbetter judgment,
May fall to match you withher country forms
And happily repent.
Farewell, farewell:
If more thou dost perceive,let me know more;
Set on thy wife toobserve: leave me, Iago.
My lord, I take my leave.
Why did I marry?
This honest creaturedoubtless
Sees and knows more, muchmore, than he unfolds.
I would I might entreatyou
To scan this thing nofurther; leave it to time:
Though it is fit thatCassio have his place,
For sure, he fills it upwith great ability,
Yet, if you please to holdhim off awhile,
You may by that perceivehim and his means:
Note, if your lady strainhis entertainment
With any strong orvehement suit;
Much will be seen in that.
In the mean time,
Let me be thought too busyin my fears--
As worthy cause I have tofear I am--
And hold her free, I dobeseech your honour.
Fear not my government.
I once more take my leave.
This fellow's of exceedinghonesty,
And knows all qualities,with a learned spirit,
Of human dealings.
If I do prove her haggard,
Though that her jesseswere my dear heartstrings,
I'd whistle her off andlet her down the wind,
To pray at fortune.
Haply, for I am black
And have not those softparts of conversation
That chamberers have, orfor I am declined
Into the vale of years--yet that's not much--
She's gone.
I am abused; and my relief
Must be to loathe her.
O curse of marriage,
That we can call thesedelicate creatures ours,
And not their appetites!
I had rather be a toad,
And live upon the vapourof a dungeon,
Than keep a corner in thething I love
For others' uses.
Yet, 'tis the plague ofgreat ones;
Prerogatived are they lessthan the base;
'Tis destiny unshunnable,like death:
Even then this forkedplague is fated to us
When we do quicken.
Here she comes: and
If she be false, O, thenheaven mocks itself!
I'll not believe't.
How now, my dear Othello!
Your dinner, and thegenerous islanders
By you invited, do attendyour presence.
I am to blame.
Why do you speak sofaintly?
Are you not well?
I have a pain upon myforehead here.
'Faith, that's withwatching; 'twill awayagain:
Let me but bind it hard,within this hour
It will be well.
Your napkin is too small:
Let it alone.
Come, I'll go in with you.
I am very sorry that youare not well.
I am glad I have foundthis napkin:
This was her firstremembrance from the Moor:
My wayward husband hath ahundred times
Woo'd me to steal it; butshe so loves the token,
For he conjured her sheshould ever keep it,
That she reserves itevermore about her
To kiss and talk to.
I'll have the work ta'enout,
And give't Iago: what hewill do with it
Heaven knows, not I;
I nothing but to pleasehis fantasy.
How now!
What do you here alone?
Do not you chide;
I have a thing for you.
You have a thing for me?
It is a common thing--
Ha?
To have a foolish wife.
O, is that all?
What will you give me nowfor that samehandkerchief?
What handkerchief?
Why, that the Moor firstgave to Desdemona;
That which so often youdid bid me steal.
Hast stol'n it from her?
No, 'faith; she let itdrop by negligence.
And, to the advantage, I,being here, took't up.
Look, here it is.
A good wench; give it me.
Ah, ah, ah.
What will you do with 't,that you have been soearnest
To have me filch it?
Why, what's that to you?
If it be not for somepurpose of import,
Give't me again: poorlady, she'll run mad
When she shall lack it.
Be not acknown on 't; Ihave use for it.
Leave me.
In Cassio's lodging, I'lllose this napkin,
And let him find it.
Trifles light as air
Are to the jealousconfirmations strong
As proofs of holy writ:this may do something.
The Moor already changeswith my poison:
Dangerous conceits are, intheir natures, poisons
that at first are scarcefound to distaste,
But with a little act uponthe blood.
Burn like the mines ofSulphur.
I did say so:
Look, where he comes!
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Nor all the drowsy syrupsof the world,
Shall ever medicine theeto that sweet sleep
Which thou owedstyesterday.
Ha!
False to me,
to me?
Why, how now, my lord.
No more of that.
Avaunt!
Be gone!
Thou hast set me on therack:
I swear 'tis better to bemuch abused
Than but to know't alittle.
How now, my lord!
What sense had I of herstol'n hours of lust?
I saw't not, thought itnot, it harm'd not me:
I slept the next nightwell, fed well, was freeand merry;
I found not Cassio'skisses on her lips:
He that is robb'd, notwanting what is stol'n,
Let him not know't, andhe's not robb'd at all.
I am sorry to hear this.
I had been happy, if thegeneral camp,
Pioneers and all, hadtasted her sweet body,
So I had nothing known.
O, now, for ever
Farewell the tranquilmind!
Farewell content!
Farewell the plumed troop,and the big wars,
That makes ambitionvirtue!
O, farewell!
Farewell the neighingsteed, and the shrilltrump,
The spirit-stirring drum,the ear-piercing fife,
The royal banner, and allquality,
Pride, pomp and circumstanceof glorious war!
And, O you mortal engines,whose rude throats
The immortal Jove's deadclamours counterfeit,
Farewell!
Othello's occupation's gone!
Is't possible, my lord?
Villain, be sure thouprove my love a whore,
Be sure of it;
Or by the worth of man'seternal soul,
Thou hadst been betterhave been born a dog
Than answer my wakedwrath!
Is't come to this?
Make me to see't; or, atthe least, so prove it,
That the probation bear nohinge nor loop
To hang a doubt on; or woeupon thy life!
My noble lord--
If thou dost slander herand torture me,
Never pray more; abandonall remorse;
On horror's head horrorsaccumulate;
Do deeds to make heavenweep, all earth amazed;
For nothing canst thou todamnation add
Greater than that.
O grace!
O heaven forgive me!
Are you a man?
Have you a soul or sense?
God be wi' you; take mineoffice.
O wretched fool.
That livest to make thinehonesty a vice!
O monstrous world!
Take note, take note, Oworld,
To be direct and honest isnot safe.
I thank you for thisprofit; and from hence
I'll love no friend, sithlove breeds such offence.
Nay, stay: thou shouldstbe honest.
I should be wise, forhonesty's a fool
And loses that it worksfor.
By the world, I think mywife be honest and thinkshe is not;
I think that thou art justand think thou art not.
I'll have some proof.
Her name, that was asfresh
As Dian's visage, is nowbegrimed and black
As mine own face.
If there be cords, orknives,
Poison, or fire, orsuffocating streams,
I'll not endure it.
Would I were satisfied!
I see, sir, you are eatenup with passion:
I regret me that I everput it to you.
You would be satisfied?
Nay, and I will.
And may: but, how?
How satisfied?
Would you, the supervisor,grossly gape on--
Behold her topp'd?
Death and damnation!
It were a tediousdifficulty, I think,
To bring them to thatprospect: damn them then,
If ever mortal eyes do seethem bolster
More than their own!
What then?
How then?
What shall I say?
Where's satisfaction?
It is impossible youshould see this,
Were they as prime asgoats, as hot as monkeys,
As salt as wolves inpride,
and fools as gross asignorance made drunk.
But yet, I say,
If imputation and strongcircumstances,
Which lead directly to thedoor of truth,
Will give you satisfaction,you might have't.
You give me a livingreason she's disloyal.
I do not like the office:
But, sith I am enter'd inthis cause so far,
Prick'd to' by foolishhonesty and love,
I will go on.
I lay with Cassio lately;
And, being troubled with araging tooth,
I could not sleep.
There are a kind of men soloose of souls,
That in their sleeps willmutter their affairs:
One of this kind isCassio:
In sleep I heard him say'Sweet Desdemona,
Let us be wary, let ushide our loves';
And then, sir, would hegripe and wring my hand,
Cried 'O sweet creature!'
And then kiss me hard,
As if he pluck'd up kissesby the roots
That grew upon my lips:then laid his leg
Over my thigh, and sigh'd,and kiss'd; and then
Cried 'Cursed fate thatgave thee to the Moor!'
O monstrous!
Monstrous!
Nay, this was but hisdream.
But this denoted aforegone conclusion:
'Tis a shrewd doubt,though it be but a dream.
And this may help tothicken other proofs
That do demonstratethinly.
I'll tear her all topieces.
Nay, but be wise: yet wesee nothing done;
She may be honest yet.
Tell me but this,
Have you not sometimesseen a handkerchief
Spotted with strawberriesin your wife's hand?
I gave her such a one;'twas my first gift.
I know not that; yet sucha handkerchief--
I am sure it was yourwife's--did I to-day
See Cassio wipe hisbeard with.
If it be that--
If it be that, or any thatwas hers,
It speaks against her withthe other proofs.
O, that the slave hadforty thousand lives!
One is too poor, too weakfor my revenge.
Now, look here, Iago;
All my fond love thus do Iblow to heaven.
'Tis gone.
Arise, black vengeance,from the hollow hell!
Yield up, O love, thycrown and hearted throne
To tyrannous hate!
Swell, bosom, with thyfraught,
For 'tis of aspics'tongues!
Yet be content.
Blood, blood, blood!
Patience, your mindperhaps may change.
Never, Iago:
Like to the Pontic sea,
Whose icy current andcompulsive course
Ne'er feels retiring ebb,but keeps due on
To the Propontic and theHellespont,
Even so my bloody thoughts,with violent pace,
Shall ne'er look back,ne'er ebb to humble love,
Till that a capable andwide revenge
Swallow them up.
Now, by yond marbleheaven,
In the due reverence of asacred vow
I here engage my words.
Do not rise yet.
Witness, you ever-burninglights above,
You elements that clip usround about,
Witness that here Iagodoth give up
The execution of his wit,hands, heart,
To wrong'd Othello'sservice!
Let him command,
And to obey shall be in meremorse,
What bloody business ever.
I greet thy love,
Not with vain thanks, butwith acceptance bounteous,
And will upon the instantput thee to't:
Within these three dayslet me hear thee say
That Cassio's not alive.
My friend is dead; 'tisdone at your request:
But let her live.
Damn her, lewd minx!
Damn her! Damn her.
Come, go with me apart; Iwill withdraw,
To furnish me with somequick means of death
For the fair devil.
Now art thou mylieutenant.
I am your own for ever.
Where should I lose thathandkerchief, Emilia?
I know not, madam.
Believe me, I'd ratherhave lose my purse
Full of crusadoes: and,but my noble Moor
Is true of mind and madeof no such baseness
As jealous creatures are,it were enough
To put him to illthinking.
Is he not jealous?
Who, he?
I think the sun where hewas born
Drew all such humours fromhim.
Look, where he comes.
I will not leave him nowtill Cassio
Be call'd to him.
How is't with you, mylord?
Well, my good lady.
O, hardness to dissemble--
How do you, Desdemona?
Well, my good lord.
Give me thy hand:
this hand is moist, mylady.
It yet hath felt no agenor known no sorrow.
This argues fruitfulnessand liberal heart:
Hot, hot, and moist:
this hand of yoursrequires
A sequester from liberty,fasting and prayer,
Much castigation, exercisedevout;
For here's a young andsweating devil here,
That commonly rebels.
'Tis a good hand,
A frank one.
You may, indeed, say so;
For 'twas that hand thatgave away my heart.
A liberal hand: the heartsof old gave hands;
But our new heraldry ishands, not hearts.
I cannot speak of this.
Come now, your promise.
What promise, chuck?
I have sent to bid Cassiocome speak with you.
I have a salt and sorryrheum offends me;
Lend me thy handkerchief.
Here, my lord.
That which I gave you.
I have it not about me.
Not?
No, my lord.
That's a fault.
That handkerchief
Did an Egyptian to mymother give;
She was a charmer, andcould almost read
The thoughts of people:
She told her, while shekept it,
'Twould make her amiableand subdue my father
Entirely to her love, butif she lost it
Or made a gift of it, myfather's eye
Should hold her loathly andhis spirits should hunt
After new fancies:
she, dying, gave it me;
And bid me, when my fatewould have me wive,
I give it her.
I did so: and take heedon't;
Make it a darling likeyour precious eye;
To lose't or give't awaywere such perdition
As nothing else couldmatch.
Is't possible?
'Tis true: there's magicin the web of it:
A sibyl, that had number'din the world
The sun to course twohundred compasses,
In her prophetic furysew'd the work;
The worms were hallow'dthat did breed the silk;
And it was dyed in mummywhich the skilful
Conserved of maidens'hearts.
Is't true?
Most veritable; thereforelook to't well.
Then would to God that Ihad never seen't!
Ha!
Wherefore?
Why do you speak sostartingly and rash?
Is't lost?
Is't gone?
Speak, is it out o' theway?
Heaven bless us!
Say you?
It is not lost;
but what an if it were?
How!
I say, it is not lost.
Fetch't, let me see't.
Why, so I can, sir,
but I will not now.
This is a trick to put mefrom my suit:
I pray you, let Cassio bereceived again.
Fetch me the handkerchief:my mind misgives.
Come, come;
You'll never meet a moresufficient man.
The handkerchief!
I pray, talk me of Cassio.
A man that all his time
Hath founded the goodfortunes on your love,
Shared dangers with you--
The handkerchief!
In faith, you are toblame.
Zounds!
Is not this man jealous?
I ne'er saw this before.
Sure, there's some wonderin this handkerchief:
I am most unhappy at theloss of it.
'Tis not a year or twoshows us a man:
They are all but stomachs,and we all but food;
They eat us hungerly, andwhen they are full,
They belch us.
Look you, Cassio and myhusband,
There is no other way;'tis she must do't:
And, lo, the happiness!
Go, and importune her.
How now, good Cassio!
What's the news with you?
Madam, my former suit: Ido beseech you
That by your virtuousmeans I may again
Exist, and be a member ofhis love
Whom I with all the officeof my heart
Entirely honour: I wouldnot be delay'd.
If my offence be of suchmortal kind
That nor my service past,nor present sorrows,
Nor purposed merit infuturity,
Can ransom me into hislove again,
But to know so must be mybenefit;
So shall I clothe me in aforced content,
And shut myself up in someother course,
To fortune's alms.
Alas, thrice-gentleCassio!
My advocation is not nowin tune;
My lord is not my lord;nor would I know him,
Were he in favour as inhumour alter'd.
So help me every spiritsanctified,
I've spoken for you all mybest
And stood within the blankof his displeasure
For my free speech!
You must awhile bepatient:
What I can do I will; andmore I will
Than for myself I dare:let that suffice you.
Is my lord angry?
He went hence but now,
And certainly in strangeunquietness.
Can he be angry?
I have seen the cannon,
When it has blown hisranks into the air,
And, like the devil, fromhis very arm
Puff'd his own brother--is he angry?
Something of moment then:I will go meet him:
There's matter in'tindeed, if he be angry.
I prithee, do so.
Something, sure, of state,
Either from Venice, orsome unhatch'd practise
Made demonstrable here inCyprus to him,
Hath puddled his clearspirits: and in such cases
Men's natures wrangle withinferior things,
Though great ones aretheir object.
'Tis even so;
For let our finger ache,and it indues
Our other healthful memberseven to a sense of pain:
nay, we must think men arenot gods,
Nor of them look for suchobservances
As fit the bridal.
Beshrew me much, Emilia, Iwas, unhandsome warrior asI am,
Arraigning his unkindnesswith my soul;
But now I find I havesuborn'd the witness,
And he's indicted falsely.
Pray heaven it bestate-matters, as you think,
And no conception nor nojealous toy concerning you.
Alas the day!
I never gave him cause.
But jealous souls will notbe answer'd so;
They are not ever jealousfor the cause,
But jealous for they arejealous: 'tis a monster
Begot upon itself, born onitself.
Heaven keep that monsterfrom Othello's mind!
Lady, amen.
I will go seek him.
Cassio, walk youhereabout:
If I do find him fit, I'llmove your suit
And seek to effect it tomy uttermost.
I humbly thank yourladyship.
Save you, friend Cassio!
What make you from home?
How is it with you, mymost fair Bianca?
I' faith, sweet love, Iwas coming to your house.
And I was going to yourlodging, Cassio.
What, keep a week away?
Seven days and nights?
Eight score eight hours?
And lovers' hours,
More tedious than the dialeight score times?
O weary reckoning!
Pardon me, Bianca:
I have this while withleaden thoughts beenpress'd:
But I shall, in a morecontinuate time,
Strike off this score ofabsence.
Sweet Bianca,
Take me this work out.
O Cassio, whence camethis?
This is some token from anewer friend:
To the felt absence now Ifeel a cause:
Is't come to this?
Well, well.
Go to, woman!
Throw your vile guesses inthe devil's teeth,
From whence you have them.
You are jealous now
That this is from somemistress, some remembrance:
No, by my faith, Bianca.
Why, whose is it?
I know not neither:
I found it in my chamber.
I like the work well: ereit be demanded--
As like enough it will--
I'ld have it copied:
So take it, and do't; andleave me for this time.
Leave you wherefore?
I do attend here on thegeneral;
And think it no addition,nor my wish,
To have him see mewoman'd.
Why, I pray you?
Not that I love you not.
But that you do not loveme.
I pray you, bring me onthe way a little,
And say if I shall see yousoon at night.
'Tis but a little way thatI can bring you;
For I attend here: butI'll see you soon.
'Tis very good; I must becircumstanced.